This of the brethren! beside reversions, And states to come in the widow, and my count! My share to-day will not be bought for forty -- [ENTER DOL.] DOL. What? FACE. Pounds, dainty Dorothy! art thou so near? DOL. Yes; say, lord general, how fares our camp? FACE. As with the few that had entrench'd themselves Safe, by their discipline, against a world, Dol, And laugh'd within those trenches, and grew fat With thinking on the booties, Dol, brought in Daily by their small parties. This dear hour, A doughty don is taken with my Dol; And thou mayst make his ransom what thou wilt, My Dousabel; he shall be brought here fetter'd With thy fair looks, before he sees thee; and thrown In a down-bed, as dark as any dungeon; Where thou shalt keep him waking with thy drum; Thy drum, my Dol, thy drum; till he be tame As the poor black-birds were in the great frost, Or bees are with a bason; and so hive him In the swan-skin coverlid, and cambric sheets, Till he work honey and wax, my little God's-gift. DOL. What is he, general? FACE. An adalantado, A grandee, girl. Was not my Dapper here yet? DOL. No. FACE. Nor my Drugger? DOL. Neither. FACE. A pox on 'em, They are so long a furnishing! such stinkards Would not be seen upon these festival days. -- [RE-ENTER SUBTLE.] How now! have you done? SUB. Done. They are gone: the sum Is here in bank, my Face. I would we knew Another chapman now would buy 'em outright. FACE. 'Slid, Nab shall do't against he have the widow, To furnish household. SUB. Excellent, well thought on: Pray God he come! FACE. I pray he keep away Till our new business be o'erpast. SUB. But, Face, How cam'st thou by this secret don? FACE. A spirit Brought me th' intelligence in a paper here, As I was conjuring yonder in my circle For Surly; I have my flies abroad. Your bath Is famous, Subtle, by my means. Sweet Dol, You must go tune your virginal, no losing O' the least time: and, do you hear? good action. Firk, like a flounder; kiss, like a scallop, close; And tickle him with thy mother tongue. His great Verdugoship has not a jot of language; So much the easier to be cozen'd, my Dolly. He will come here in a hired coach, obscure, And our own coachman, whom I have sent as guide, No creature else. [KNOCKING WITHOUT.] Who's that? [EXIT DOL.] SUB. It is not he? FACE. O no, not yet this hour. [RE-ENTER DOL.] SUB. Who is't? DOL. Dapper, Your clerk. FACE. God's will then, queen of Fairy, On with your tire; [EXIT DOL.] and, doctor, with your robes. Let's dispatch him for God's sake. SUB. 'Twill be long. FACE. I warrant you, take but the cues I give you, It shall be brief enough. [GOES TO THE WINDOW.] 'Slight, here are more! Abel, and I think the angry boy, the heir, That fain would quarrel. SUB. And the widow? FACE. No, Not that I see. Away! [EXIT SUB.] [ENTER DAPPER.] O sir, you are welcome. The doctor is within a moving for you; I have had the most ado to win him to it! -- He swears you'll be the darling of the dice: He never heard her highness dote till now. Your aunt has given you the most gracious words That can be thought on. DAP. Shall I see her grace? FACE. See her, and kiss her too. -- [ENTER ABEL, FOLLOWED BY KASTRIL.] What, honest Nab! Hast brought the damask? NAB. No, sir; here's tobacco. FACE. 'Tis well done, Nab; thou'lt bring the damask too? DRUG. Yes: here's the gentleman, captain, master Kastril, I have brought to see the doctor. FACE. Where's the widow? DRUG. Sir, as he likes, his sister, he says, shall come. FACE. O, is it so? good time. Is your name Kastril, sir? KAS. Ay, and the best of the Kastrils, I'd be sorry else, By fifteen hundred a year. Where is the doctor? My mad tobacco-boy, here, tells me of one That can do things: has he any skill? FACE. Wherein, sir? KAS. To carry a business, manage a quarrel fairly, Upon fit terms. FACE. It seems, sir, you are but young About the town, that can make that a question. KAS. Sir, not so young, but I have heard some speech Of the angry boys, and seen them take tobacco; And in his shop; and I can take it too. And I would fain be one of 'em, and go down And practise in the country. FACE. Sir, for the duello, The doctor, I assure you, shall inform you, To the least shadow of a hair; and shew you An instrument he has of his own making, Wherewith no sooner shall you make report Of any quarrel, but he will take the height on't Most instantly, and tell in what degree Of safety it lies in, or mortality. And how it may be borne, whether in a right line, Or a half circle; or may else be cast Into an angle blunt, if not acute: And this he will demonstrate. And then, rules To give and take the lie by. KAS. How! to take it? FACE. Yes, in oblique he'll shew you, or in circle; But never in diameter. The whole town Study his theorems, and dispute them ordinarily At the eating academies. KAS. But does he teach Living by the wits too? FACE. Anything whatever. You cannot think that subtlety, but he reads it. He made me a captain. I was a stark pimp, Just of your standing, 'fore I met with him; It is not two months since. 