Nay, not for that, I protest; but I had an errand to monsieur Fastidious, and I have forgot it. MACI. Why, go along to court with us, and remember it; come, gentlemen, you three take one boat, and Sogliardo and I will take another; we shall be there instantly. FAST. Content: good sir, vouchsafe us your pleasance. PUNT. Farewell, Carlo: remember. CAR. I warrant you: would I had one of Kemp's shoes to throw after you. PUNT. Good fortune will close the eyes of our jest, fear not; and we shall frolick. [EXEUNT. MIT. This Macilente, signior, begins to be more sociable on a sudden, methinks, than he was before: there's some portent in it, I believe. COR. O, he's a fellow of a strange nature. Now does he, in this calm of his humour, plot, and store up a world of malicious thoughts in his brain, till he is so full with them, that you shall see the very torrent of his envy break forth like a land-flood: and, against the course of all their affections, oppose itself so violently, that you will almost have wonder to think, how 'tis possible the current of their dispositions shall receive so quick and strong an alteration. MIT. Ay, marry, sir, this is that, on which my expectation has dwelt all this while; for I must tell you, signior, though I was loth to interrupt the scene, yet I made it a question in mine own private discourse, how he should properly call it "Every Man out of his Humour", when I saw all his actors so strongly pursue, and continue their humours? COR. Why, therein his art appears most full of lustre, and approacheth nearest the life; especially when in the flame and height of their humours, they are laid flat, it fills the eye better, and with more contentment. How tedious a sight were it to behold a proud exalted tree kept and cut down by degrees, when it might be fell'd in a moment! and to set the axe to it before it came to that pride and fulness, were, as not to have it grow. MIT. Well, I shall long till I see this fall, you talk of. COR. To help your longing, signior, let your imagination be swifter than a pair of oars: and by this, suppose Puntarvolo, Brisk, Fungoso, and the dog, arrived at the court-gate, and going up to the great chamber. Macilente and Sogliardo, we'll leave them on the water, till possibility and natural means may land them. Here come the gallants, now prepare your expectations. ---------------------------------------------- ACT V SCENE I. -- THE PALACE STAIRS. ENTER PUNTARVOLO, WITH HIS DOG, FOLLOWED BY FASTIDIOUS BRISK AND FUNGOSO. PUNT. Come, gentles, Signior, you are sufficiently instructed. FAST. Who, I, sir? PUNT. No, this gentleman. But stay, I take thought how to bestow my dog; he is no competent attendant for the presence. FAST. Mass, that's true, indeed, knight; you must not carry him into the presence. PUNT. I know it, and I, like a dull beast, forgot to bring one of my cormorants to attend me. FAST. Why, you were best leave him at the porter's lodge. PUNT. Not so; his worth is too well known amongst them, to be forth-coming. FAST. 'Slight, how will you do then? PUNT. I must leave him with one that is ignorant of his quality, if I will have him to be safe. And see! here comes one that will carry coals, ergo, will hold my dog. ENTER A GROOM, WITH A BASKET. My honest friend, may I commit the tuition of this dog to thy prudent care? GROOM. You may, if you please, sir. PUNT. Pray thee let me find thee here at my return; it shall not be long, till I will ease thee of thy employment, and please thee. Forth, gentles. FAST. Why, but will you leave him with so slight command, and infuse no more charge upon the fellow? PUNT. Charge! no; there were no policy in that; that were to let him know the value of the gem he holds, and so to tempt frail nature against her disposition. No, pray thee let thy honesty be sweet, as it shall be short. GROOM. Yes, sir. PUNT. But hark you, gallants, and chiefly monsieur Brisk: when we come in eye-shot, or presence of this lady, let not other matters carry us from our project; but, if we can, single her forth to some place -- FAST. I warrant you. PUNT. And be not too sudden, but let the device induce itself with good circumstance. On. FUNG. Is this the way? good truth, here be fine hangings. [EXEUNT PUNT., FAST., AND FUNGOSO. GROOM. Honesty! sweet, and short! Marry, it shall, sir, doubt you not; for even at this instant if one would give me twenty pounds, I would not deliver him; there's for the sweet: but now, if any man come offer me but two-pence, he shall have him; there's for the short now. 'Slid, what a mad humorous gentleman is this to leave his dog with me! I could run away with him now, an he were worth any thing. ENTER MACILENTE AND SOGLIARDO. MACI. Come on, signior, now prepare to court this all-witted lady, most naturally, and like yourself. SOG. Faith, an you say the word, I'll begin to her in tobacco. MACI. O, fie on't! no; you shall begin with, "How does my sweet lady", or, "Why are you so melancholy, madam?" though she be very merry, it's all one. Be sure to kiss your hand often enough; pray for her health, and tell her, how "More than most fair she is". 